*My Own Summer*

Summer is my least favorite season. Maybe to you, summer invokes a nice relaxing beach day when you sip out of a coconut, while simultaneously walking through a field of flowers. But to me, it has always been terrible. But to do that, I need to talk about my family. I was raised in China for 14 years. I consider it my home country, and my life was there. Since first grade, my friends and I grew up together, imprinting ourselves on each other permanently. Every summer, I would visit my father’s family in India. And they were disgusting

In India, family is number one. Blood is thicker than water, and being “family” can result in you getting away with almost anything. I was a product of an inter-caste marriage, which is a big deal in rural India. My mother’s in laws would spoil me while they shunned her. They forbade her from visiting her parents, and made sure she would get cut of from them. I never really noticed their appaling behavior since they hid it from me, but I never really cared. To me, they were just some people I saw for a few weeks of the year. Furthermore, I dissociated my summers because I knew that it wasn’t my life. I only spent 2 months there, and any people I met would not matter, since I would not see them again until next year. For all I cared, my extended family were just my father’s friends; People you say hi to for a bit, then continue about your day. I would not take a bullet for them, or any sort of sacrifice. So when I found out how they were treating my mother behind my back, I naturally lost it. I never lashed out at them, but I liked to think they were getting their karmic dues eventually.

You might think, like me for a while, that my father is utterly incompetent. After all, his wife was being mistreated in front of him, and he did nothing. The thing is, he is not bad people, far from it. Obviously if my dad talked to my wife the same way his parents did to his, a right hook would be the first thing I’d do.Remember, blood is thicker than water to them. Obeying his parents unconditionally is in his blood, and he cannot change it. Somethings he just cant understand, for example he says I need to marry an Indian girl in the future otherwise great suffering will be imparted to my family (it’s in my horoscope!).I know he always loved my mother, and took care of her. He’d let her visit her parents, disobeying his parents wishes indirectly, but to my knowledge he didn’t stand up for her. Despite this, I cannot hate him. My dad is a stereotypical Indian dad, but he cares a lot for me and never once expressed frustrations at my grades. He allowed me to live an extremely comfortable life because he worked hard in his school days. India is not so much like the US, your self worth and future is determined entirely by your grades and what college you end up going to. I can criticize this society forever, but the fact that I am failing in a “liberal” US university is shameful too. If he can reject such a fundamental aspect of his culture, I need to do better.

Out of all the things I despise about myself, the biggest is my powerlessness. I want to take control of my life in my hands, but time and time again I am reminded that I have to rely on others. My father is basically paying for my college, and as an international student, I feel like I am at his whims. If I am unable to attend stony brook next semester or whatever reason such as visa issues (which have kept me up at night) , deportation, low grades whatsver, than thats the end of the line for me. My grades are so shit that no university will accept me abroad. Hell, even an Indian university might not accept me, since I did badly on my highschool final exams. Not that I want to go to an Indian uni anyway. If that ends up happening, my life will be over. I will have no agency in my life, and they will control everything. I will have to reject everything I am.

So as you can see, summer is pretty tough for me. I am surrounded by the people who despise my mother, and my own helplessness of it all. But it’s okay. Just 2 more months to go
